Engdocs 2428 (#22068)
docker/docker.github.io: content/manuals/projects/open.md

---
title: Open a new project
description: Learn how to open a new local or remote project, or an existing project in Docker Projects. 
keywords: Docker, projects, docker deskotp, containerization, open, remote, local
weight: 20
---

> > [!IMPORTANT]
> > 
> > In order to use Docker Projects, make sure you have enabled the **Access experimental features** setting on the **Features in development** tab. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!IMPORTANT]
> 
> To use Docker Projects, you must enable the **Access experimental features** setting in Docker Desktop. See [Features in development](/manuals/desktop/settings-and-maintenance/settings.md#features-in-development) for more information.
```

## New projects

> In order to run a new project, it must be stored locally. In the **Projects** view in Docker Desktop, local projects display the local path under the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run a new project, it must be stored locally. In the **Projects** view in Docker Desktop, local projects display the local path under the project.
```

4. Specify how to run your project by selecting **New run command**:

   > [!TIP]
   >
   > While configuring your run command, you can view the equivalent `docker compose up` command in the **Run command** section on the configuration page. You can also use this command to run your project from the command line. You can refer to the [`docker compose up` reference documentation](/reference/cli/docker/compose/up.md) to learn more about the options you configure. 

   - **Name**: Specify a name to identify the run command.
   - **Compose files**: Select one or more Compose files from your project. 
   - **Flags**: Optionally, select one or more flags for your run command.

   > [!TIP]
   > 
   > While the `--env-file` flag isn't currently supported, you can specify environment variables in your Compose file, or use the **Tasks** option to run a script that sets your environment variables. 

   - **Services that will run**: After selecting one or more Compose files, the services defined in the files will appear here. If there is more than one service, you can optionally choose to not run a service by deselecting the checkbox.

>    - **Tasks (Advanced options)**: Optionally specify a command to run before running the project. For example, if you want to run a bash script from the project directory named `set-vars.sh`, you can specify bash `set-vars.sh`. Or, on Windows to run a script with `cmd.exe` named `set-vars.bat`, specify `set-vars.bat`. Note that a task can access environment variables from your terminal profile, but it can't access local shell functions nor aliases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Tasks (Advanced options)**: Optionally specify a command to run before running the project. For example, if you want to run a bash script from the project directory named `set-vars.sh`, you can specify bash `set-vars.sh`. Or, on Windows, to run a script with `cmd.exe` named `set-vars.bat`, specify `set-vars.bat`. Note that a task can access environment variables from your terminal profile, but it can't access local shell functions nor aliases.
```

>    - **Tasks (Advanced options)**: Optionally specify a command to run before running the project. For example, if you want to run a bash script from the project directory named `set-vars.sh`, you can specify bash `set-vars.sh`. Or, on Windows to run a script with `cmd.exe` named `set-vars.bat`, specify `set-vars.bat`. Note that a task can access environment variables from your terminal profile, but it can't access local shell functions nor aliases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Tasks (Advanced options)**: Optionally specify a command to run before running the project. For example, if you want to run a bash script from the project directory named `set-vars.sh`, you can specify bash `set-vars.sh`. Or, on Windows, to run a script with `cmd.exe` named `set-vars.bat`, specify `set-vars.bat`. Note that a task can access environment variables from your terminal profile, but it can't access local shell functions nor aliases.
```

6. Specify how to run your project by selecting **New run command**:

   > [!TIP]
   >
   > While configuring your run command, you can view the equivalent `docker compose up` command in the **Run command** section on the configuration page. You can also use this command to run your project from the command line. You can refer to the [`docker compose up` reference documentation](/reference/cli/docker/compose/up.md) to learn more about the options you configure. 

   - **Name**: Specify a name to identify the run command.
   - **Compose files**: Select one or more Compose files from your project. 
   - **Flags**: Optionally, select one or more flags for your run command.

   > [!TIP]
   > 
   > While the `--env-file` flag isn't currently supported, you can specify environment variables in your Compose file, or use the **Tasks** option to run a script that sets your environment variables. 

   - **Services that will run**: After selecting one or more Compose files, the services defined in the files will appear here. If there is more than one service, you can optionally choose to not run a service by deselecting the checkbox.

>    - **Tasks (Advanced options)**: Optionally specify a command to run before running the project. For example, if you want to run a bash script from the project directory named `set-vars.sh`, you can specify bash `set-vars.sh`. Or, on Windows to run a script with `cmd.exe` named `set-vars.bat`, specify `set-vars.bat`. Note that a task can access environment variables from your terminal profile, but it can't access local shell functions nor aliases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Tasks (Advanced options)**: Optionally specify a command to run before running the project. For example, if you want to run a bash script from the project directory named `set-vars.sh`, you can specify bash `set-vars.sh`. Or, on Windows, to run a script with `cmd.exe` named `set-vars.bat`, specify `set-vars.bat`. Note that a task can access environment variables from your terminal profile, but it can't access local shell functions nor aliases.
```
